Archive name
BruceIV's_Project64_1.6.2_InstallerWizard.exe

RAR4 BEST COMPRESSION

Advanced->SFX options...

Path to extract
%USERPROFILE%\Desktop

Update->Overwrite all files

Advanced->Shortcuts->
D, "Project64 1.6.2\Project64.exe", \, "Nintendo 64 Emulator", "Project64 1.6.2",
P, "Project64 1.6.2\Project64.exe", \, "Nintendo 64 Emulator", "Project64 1.6.2",

Setup->Run after extraction
"Project64 1.6.2\Project64.exe"

Text and icon...->Title of SFX window
BruceIV's Project64 1.6.2 Installer Wizard

Load SFX icon from the file->PJ64.ico

Text to display in SFX window
Project64 1.6.2 is a 3rd party deployment-ready dual-core/level Nintendo 64 software emulator developed by Edwin Bruce Shankle IV from the source code of Project64 1.6.1/1.6 Plus in this fork. This is not a friendly fork, this is a divergent fork made with the intent to provide an update for Project64 1.6/1.6.1 accoording to my vision. This does not target anywhere near hardware-level accuracy or Public Domain ROMs. Project64 1.6.2's specialty is with playing non-hardware compatible romhacks (typically older one's) and running on low-end Windows computers which lack the necessary specs required for accurate emulation, although this emulator is capable of relatively accurate emulation with the right settings and plugins being used (Icepir8 plugins). Project64 1.6.2 is very flexible in terms of what it can support by utilizing the included plugin library. This emulator has received one vulnerability fix, but there could be other vulnerabilities highlighted in the future so be on the lookout! See the SECURITY.MD file on the GitHub repository for more details here: https://github.com/BruceShankleIV/Project64-1.6.2


Before installing or using this application, please carefully review the following information as is described below.





Windows Security's Virus & threat protection can interfere with this installer wizard and potentially Project64.exe itself. I highly suggest disabling real-time protection under Virus & threat protection settings before installing 1.6.2. After installing 1.6.2 from this InstallerWiz, scroll to the bottom, click "Add or remove exclusions", click "Add an exclusion", click "Folder", then single-click on the Project64 1.6.2 folder and press "Select Folder". Once you have done all that, re-enable real-time protection to turn your antivirus back on.



On the GitHub repository you can find a CF1 portable which sets Counter Factor to 1 by default and updates the RDB to account for this. Do not apply this patch unless it has a niche benefit for you, such as if the romhacks you play with this emulator are only of Super Mario 64 and it doesn't happen to be SKELUX's Star Road which we already have RDB entries for.


Avoid loading decompressed roms into the emulator or they can misbehave/crash. When I say decompressed I don't mean extracted from a .zip/compression format, but when the .z64/.n64 file itself has not been compressed.


The default video plugin can have flickering issues with N64 games on modern hardware. Use Icepir8's Legacy LLE Ver. 0.3.2 or Mk3 GLideN64 to prevent flickering problems in games like Paper Mario.


The default input plugin is just for general-use, if you play on keyboard you should use LINK's DirectInput7 which has key binding on the F and G keys (but does not save its config, you can save its config with Jabo's DirectInput7 though), while controller users should try the Octomino SDL2 plugin and configure it after opening a rom, though Octomino SDL2 lacks pak support which is required by some games like GoldenEye.


Project64 1.6 was not designed to support romhacks. If you want to use this emulator with romhacks, you may need to use specific rom settings, update your RDB, or use a specific video plugin. Please see the user guide for more info about this.


If you plan on using this as your main emulator, I strongly suggest right clicking an N64 rom (.n64, .z64 file), Open with, make sure "Always use this app to open .z64/.n64 files" is checked, More apps, Look for another app on this PC, and then select the Project64.exe. If you already have a different version of Project64 setup to do this, it might just open up inside of the other version of Project64 instead due to a bug in Windows. To fix this Windows' bug, you can rename the Project64.exe that isn't in the Project64 1.6.2 folder. I also advise right clicking on the Project64 1.6.2 icon in your taskbar and pinning it to the taskbar to quickly launch it.



Assuming you have read all of the above, press the install button to setup and autolaunch Project64 1.6.2 on your PC in a directory that doesn't require admin permissions such as your Desktop.